In one of my previous tutorials, I demonstrated
how to create a moving filmstrip effect in
Avid Media Composer.
Check out this effect, based on the building
blocks of my earlier tutorial.
If you find this tutorial useful, be sure
to check out GeniusDV's Media Composer training
packages to Orlando, FL.
Before you start this effect you may want
to review my earlier tutorial, because it
explains things in a bit more detail when
starting this effect.
Start with 6 three second clips in a sequence.
Drag the 3D PIP effect onto the first clip
in your timeline.
Press the effect mode button.
Move over to the record side of the Composer
window, and drag the playhead indicator to
the first frame.
Press the add keyframe button.
Press the reduce button so you can see outside
the visible picture area.
Move the picture in picture off to the right
edge of the visible area.
Move the playhead indicator to the last frame
of the clip.
Again, press the add keyframe button.
Now move the picture in picture off to the
left side of the visible area.
Store the effect from the effect editor window
by dragging it into a bin.
Click on this timecode track to exit effect
mode.
Then drag a marquee lasso around all your
clips within the timeline.
Go ahead and move the position indicator forward
one second.
Hold down the command key and drag the next
clip up and over to V2 so it snaps to the
playhead indicator.
Repeat this process until you've got a moving
filmstrip effect.
Park over the middle of one of your clips
on V3 and press the effect mode button.
Move over to the composer window and press
the add keyframe button.
Move your picture in picture down towards
the bottom of the screen.
Click on the Y Rotation button within the
effects editor window.
Go ahead and rotate your picture and picture
effect.
Store your new effect in a bin.
You may want to give it a name.
Select all your clips in the timeline by dragging
a lasso around them and / or shift clicking
on them.
Double click on your new effect that you saved
in the bin.
Okay, that's it!
Check it out.
For other great tips like this or to enroll
in a Media Composer training class, visit
GeniusDV.com